Things of interest:

According to http://atariage.com/forums/topic/249933-blue-max-source-code-for-you/

> Courtesy of Bob Polin, the source code for Blue Max. (An interview with him is forthcoming on the ANTIC podcast.)
> On disk 2, there are two bad sectors (511 and 540) that I have been unable to read even after multiple attempts. (Not sure what those correspond to, but there are two files with 0 sectors listed in the directory.)
> Bob would like to see his source code in ASCII format, but the format of these files looks unusual to me. Normally I just export the files to my Mac then do search-replace of the RETURN characters and things look OK — but that doesn't seem to be good enough in this case - there are still weird messy characters. Can someone make a pretty version for me to send to Bob?

# Source code on two disks

I've started with the dumps of the two disks:

- `Blue Max Source disk 1.atr`
- `Blue Max Source disk 2 fxed.atr` (I assume that was a fixed version)

The ATR are disk images, which I extracted to `Blue Max Source disk 1` and `Blue Max Source disk 2 fxed` with Applesauce on macOS.

# The files on these disks

- `ASM` and `ASM.D4` is the main source files, which includes all other source files to generate the game. Two floppy drives are required. D and D2 for `ASM` or alternatively D and D2 for `ASM.D4`.
- `EXXON.0` to `EXXON.18` – this is the main game, which the start code in `EXXON.0`
- `CHBAS` is the source code, which contains the missle graphics, texts and custom font for the map.
- `COPYPROT`, `MULTSEC` and `UNPROT` all seem to be related to the disk copy protection. I have not looked into it, because I am working of the tape version.
- `MAX.1` is the compiled gamed code, generated by the compiler.
- `MAX.2` contains the missle graphics images and and all the texts from the game. It is generated by compiling the `CHBAS` source code.
- `MAX.3` is the 1kb large Atari font, which is used for the environment. It is also generated by compiling the `CHBAS` source code.
- `MAX.4` is loaded to $4D00, which does not fit the game. No idea, what it is for. It is not needed to run Bluemax.
- `DOS.SYS` and `DUP.SYS` seems like a standard Atari DOS to allow booting of the disk.

# Extracting the source code

You end up with these binary files, which were created and edited with the `Synapse Assembler` or `Syn Assembler` and some binary files.

The next step was to convert them back to ASCII. While you could open them in an emulator and print them. I found it easier to write a little Python script to do the same, the format is pretty trivial to understand. The script generates the `SourceCode` directory.

I found a version of the ASCII source online, but that one was defect, the dump had 'EXXON.3' as a duplicate of 'EXXON.4', which meant that 'EXXON.3' was missing.

# Comment

You might be surprised, that the code contains no comments, almost all symbols are two characters long, etc. It looks almost worse than having no source code at all. Well, this game was from 1983 and storage was at a premium (RAM and disk), so you didn't had the luxury to *waste* bytes for comments, formatting, symbols, etc. What you did instead, was to developed software on paper with all your artwork being drawn on grid paper. You then entered this into the computer. It was a step up from writing CPU code directly as bytes, but all your documentation, etc. was in paper form.
